REQ-ID: 018
Description: The product shall allow Walton employees to access required information easily
Type: Usability
Rationale: To ensure adoption of the system by Walton Employees
Fit Criterion: 75% of users should be able to accomplish their task successfully after 30 minutes of training and with no further assistance
Originator: Justin and Marion
Comments: [Chris Freshman] Add comments below, making sure to include your initials in [] at the start.

[David Jakes] This might be better separated into two discrete non-functional requirements.  Sharp et alia (2207) suggest six usability goals:
	utility
	efficiency
	effectiveness
	safety
	learnability
	memorability
Efficiency is on its own, but the last two contribute to ease of use.  They can be measured in different ways.
Nothing is cast in stone of course, but your fit criterion actually includes two measurable criteria, and, since your requirement seems to cover at least four use cases, a huge amount of testing will be involved.
Also, who are the users?  Centre customers might be able to access their own membership details, but they are unlikely to use the system as regularly as staff members, so I think there needs to be some caution with the metrics.  Currently, you are implying that 100% of users are successful on their first attempt.  The specification is likely to become part of a contract.  That's a big ask.  Nielsen (2001) has a useful discussion on metrics.
I think measuring the response time is really a performance non-functional requirement, although certainly it must contribute to efficiency.
References
Nielsen, J (2001) Usability Metrics [online].  Available at https://www.nngroup.com/articles/usability-metrics/ (Accessed 14 March 2017)
Sharp, H, Rogers, Y, Preece, J (2007 p20) Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction Chichester: Wiley 

[David Perez] The fit criterion provided is only measurable in terms of reaction time to an invoked command or operation. It doesn't provide traceability regarding usuability. Furthermore,
 +              although the test feature would provide a clear indication of favorable user experience, it would not reflect fully the concept of efficiency. For example, different users might 
 +              have different needs and there will be a variety of users with different skills. How fast they will learn to use the product efficiently doesn't necessarily benefit of fast time response.
 
[Constantinos Morfakis] I believe that for this specific project ease of use should reflect the stakeholders' need of tasks being
                        accomplishable from different personnel who have no clearly-assigned job positions (since they be asked to
                        complete a different task than usual as a result of another employee being absent, etc.)
                        Therefore I would suggest fit criterion of something along the lines of:
                        "75% of users should be able to accomplish their task successfully after 30 minutes of training and with no further assistance"

[Chris Freshman] Comments taken on board and NFR updated